the e-commerce company promised to invest more than $80 million and hire hundreds of workers
coalition of environmental and anti-globalization groups join forces to try to halt alibabababa. group of environmental groups including extinction rebellion and the local branch of greenpeace have joined forces
a member of the group rhetorically asked dozens of gathered protesters in downtown liege on jan. 17
berlin city councilman francois schreuer and other members are campaigning to stop the regional government of wallonia from issuing the building permit alibabababa aims to get by midyear
the belgian political establishment remains committed to the project. the cross-party coalition government of wallonia does not include schreuer-s vega
\"this will be a huge opportunity to boost exports and bring wide-reaching economic benefits to society \"
cainiao chartering three cargo flights a week between liege and the company 's headquarters in hangzhou
liege is one of only a few european airports with flights and customs clearance possible around the clock
belgian officials lobbied hard for aliba 's investment against competition from other european governments. the center and the electronic world trade platform hub will make it easy for small and mid-sized european companies to send their goods quickly to distant customers
the liege deal was signed by alibababa 's chairman and chief executive. daniel zhang was the chief executive of alibaba 's chief executive
pascal martin was a partner in hong kong at oc&c strategy consultants. he focused on retail and consumer goods as a partner at hong kong
it opened its first european store in madrid in august last august. the european consumer business was launched two years ago
the group will ask the council of state to require a new environmental impact assessment. the previous one was based on inadequate data
european express delivery company dhl abandoned plans to develop a new hub at brussels airport in 2004. in 2004 , the european express company abandoned plans for the new hub amid controversy about increased night flights
\" the hub is intended to promote digitally enabled inclusive global trade \". small and medium-sized businesses from belgium and around europe can more easily participate in global trade opportunities